Readings on D3 and SVG
Anne Lohmeijer
UvA ID 10447555

1. How can D3 access and change the DOM? What do select and SelectAll do?
	What D3 does is that it let you bind arbitrary data to the DOM, whereafter it applies data-driven transformations to the document (hence it changes the DOM). So it manipulates documents based on data. 'Select' selects the first element in the DOM which satisfies the condition you gave. 'SelectAll' selects all elements in the DOM satisfying the given condition.

2. What are the 'd' and 'i' in function(d){} and function(d,i){}?
	The 'd' is an argument which is nothing but a convention. The function will parse a dataset and will for each element return the result of the function. So d will be respectively element 1, 2, and so forth, the input of the function. On the other hand 'i' just represents the order of the element in the selection. Thus the first elements has order i = 0, second i = 1, etc.

3. Write sample lines of JavaScript to add a div element with class “barChart1” and to add an svg 		element with class “barChart2” with square dimensions.
	d3.select("body").append("div").attr("class", "barChart1");
	d3.select("div").append("svg")
	.attr("width", 200)
	.attr("height", 200)

4. Describe append, update, enter, and exit at a high level. What does “selectAll + data + enter + 		append” refer to?
	'append' takes as an argument the type of element that needs to be created (added to existing data)
	'update' on the other hand, works on persistent elements, hence in this case you're 'staying on stage'.
	'enter' is a more powerful alternative than to append just new stuff. When a dataset contains more items than there are elements available in the DOM, the 'surplus data items' are stored in the enter selection. Hence the enter selection could be seen as a dynamic queue for data items whereafter they eventually get in the DOM.
	'exit' is the counterpart of 'enter', i.e. the exit selection holds data items that are about to leave the data set. 
	"selectAll + data + enter + append" refers to a sequence in which the following things happen in consecutive order: selectAll() returns an array with all elements satisfying the given condition. Hereafter data() specifies two things, namely the data array and the key function which assigns keys to the elements of the data array. The latter will compare the keys of elements in the specified data array with the keys of the elements in the existing selection (i.e. the selection returned by '.selectAll()'). Any element in the data array whose key is different from all keys in the existing element selection becomes part of the enter selection (the 'queue'). Finally the '.enter.append()' creates as many elements as the enter selection contains to eventually add those members of the enter selection to the already existing data.

5. What are the main differences between drawing a bar chart with HTML and SVG?
	In SVG, each shape you draw will be rememberd as an object which means if you change an attribute of an SVG object the browser will automatically re-render the shape. If you want to make a change to an HTML drawn barchart you have to redraw the entire scene. 

6. In drawing the simple bar chart with D3 and SVG, what elements were appended, and what parts of 		the graph did these elements correspond to?
	As example, say:
	(...)
	.enter().append('div')
		.style('width', function(d){return d * 10 + "px"; })
		.text(function(d){return d;})

	Hence the elements you append are in this case 'div's and these correspond to the bars in the barchart.








	


